# Data notes

## Timing
- The variables in the .dta files are all dated with the end date of the calcuation period.  For example, the *DProd_t8_Wed* variable dated 6/24/1998 calculates the 8 week change in oil production from 4/29/1998 to 6/24/1998.

## Details
- As of 5/31/2021, these are the latest data files with the new timing conventions. Each series has a suffix to indicate when it's calculated. The general philosophy is to take a variable from the prior day if it's not clear that it won't overlap with a day t variable, and to take it from day t if we are sure there is no look-ahead bias. For example, we calculate text-based series to end at 2:30pm on each day, so there is no overlap with these at either the 2:30pm energy market closes or the 4pm stock market closes.
- Some of the independent series are from the prior month, and these are indicated with a _monthly suffix in the variable names. For example, we calculate Momentum (Mom_monthly) for month m as the cumulative return from month m-11 to m-1. After construction, we use its month m-1 value for all weeks in month m in order to avoid potential look-ahead bias.
- The physical regressions use levels of industrial production and inventories that are reported on Wednesday at 10am. The RHS variables for these are all from Tues or earlier.
- The physical variables are on occasion reported on either Thurs or even Friday. For this reason, when we are forecasting price-based series that use the physical oil market variables as forecasting variables, we use Friday and forward market-based observations to make sure there is no overlap with the production or inventory series in that week.
- For Oil Volatility (OilVol), it is not certain whether Bloomberg uses futures settlement price or last traded price for calculating OilVol. Therefore, we use its Thursday or Tuesday value as an independent variable. Accordingly, for the level difference of OilVOl, i.e. DOilVol, we use its Thursday or Tuesday value as an independent variable and use its Friday value as a dependent variable. 
- For Exxon Mobil stock returns (xomRet) and British Petrol stock returns (bpRet), we use Thursday or Tuesday values as an independent variable and use their Friday value as a dependent variable. We use BP PLC American Depository Receipts (ADR) Stock Price for calculating bpRet. For Royal Dutch Shell class A stock returns (rdsaRet), we use its Friday or Tuesday value as an independent variable and use its Monday week t+1 value when it is a dependent variable because it trades in Europe and has a 10 or 11am NY close.
- For Open Interest (OpenInt) calculation, we multiply WTI front-month futures price by open interest (quantity of futures contracts outstanding). The data for open interest generally comes in around 18:00 EST but this may vary depending on the exact time the exchange sends data to Bloomberg. Hence, we use Thursday or Tuesday value as an independent variable. 
- For Hedging Pressure (HedgPres), we use its Friday value from the week t-1 as an independent variable for both prices and physical regressions.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) provides long and short hedge positions data for “CRUDE OIL, LIGHT SWEET - NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE” on a weekly basis.  The data for week t are as of Tuesday, and are released on Friday of week t at 3:30pm EST.
